---
title: "Community Content Spotlight: 1063 Days: A King Gizzard Mini Documentary"
category: Community Spotlight
---

The Red Rocks marathon shows were the pinnacle of the King Gizzard and the Lizard Wizard live performance. The band were always regarded for their high energy live shows, which for years had been building up from a more standard promotion of the newest material into an acknowledgement of their large and diverse discography — it was finally time to put it all together, to look back at every album and construct a massive multiple-hour set in celebration, worthy of the iconic Colorado venue. Originally announced in 2019 and booked for March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic would see the performances delayed for over two years.  
The gap was enough for seven new albums, which had the band re-emerge with another significant stylistic shift into a new golden era, including a whole new demographic of fans; who, as the marathon sets finally approached for real, were suddenly faced with the consideration of just how meaningful the wait had been.

So, Rigo Garcia, who was to re-unite after a couple of years with friends Sammy and Jacob Rich at the show, decided to capture the moment — producing this excellent fan documentary: 1063 Days - A King Gizzard Mini Documentary.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuOlJXeM5RQ

<iframe width="1904" height="768" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CuOlJXeM5RQ" title="1063 Days: A King Gizzard Mini Documentary" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The plan was loose, unsure of how they would go filming at the show itself, most of the footage used was shot the day before at a fan meet-up organised by the Gizzverse Podcast creators at the Monkey Barrel in Denver, likely the largest ever of its kind. Intending to find out how much the lives of various fans had changed in the 1063 days between tickets originally going on sale to the date of the first show, what they got instead was a passionate and free-wheeling exposition of what it means to be a fan of King Gizzard and the Lizard Wizard.

One great example is an interview-ee who had expressed their dedication by hiking 1500 miles to be able to make it to the performance. This fan never managed to secure a ticket and had accepted not being able to attend; but passion for King Gizzard has an amazing tendency to spread, and once their local hiking community found out how dissapointed he would be to miss out, they rallied together to find a ticket. Providence had it that he also encountered the band:

"...just met them, and its like proof more than anything. You kind of get the feeling before you meet them, that they're actual class-act guys, real stand-up people trying to move through the world in the best, least harmful way they can."

Other established members of the fanbase were present, such as a couple of the guys behind Cygoodies; the custom limited run psych-rock merch creators/distributors with a strong focus on King Gizzard. Who had a lot of thoughts on not only what their merch means:

"A lot of it is that spirit that theres a lot of generosity amongst the fanbase. Giving stuff to people, or making something that really speaks to somebody. At the end of the day its just a metal pin or whatever, but it speaks to this music, it speaks to this band. Its everything that its about, cause you never know what somebody's going through in their life, and this music speaks to them."

But the multitudes of King Gizzard:

"It speaks to this thing inside of you thats sort of yearning for a little bit more, thats kind of questioning. Its a little bit off the wall, but it also doesn't give a fuck. Its sort of punk, but then its also super light-hearted. Like the whole Weirdo Swarm aspect, embrace that inner-child silliness inside you. Also embrace the rage thats inside of you. Theres a lot of philosophical shit about it, but then its also very playful. So its hitting on all these things that just encompass the human experience in a multitide of ways, it hits that broad spectrum of things and I think people just grab onto that"  
"Its like this wild communal thing. Its like today's Grateful Dead in a way. Its like a certain kind of fire thats been lit by this torch thats been passed. Maybe the torch looks different, but the fire is the same."

Its unsurprising that they also began to make a comparison to the Grateful Dead, as the tour attached to these shows was perhaps the first real example of King Gizzard as a 'jam-band', not only reflecting their new approach in studio, but unifying all the associated phenomena that originated with The Dead: fans following for as many shows as possible, recording and sharing the performances, and the 'lot' culture of meeting up outside the venue before the show.  
They aren't the first to make the comparison, but there will always only be one Grateful Dead, who are unique for pioneering the many aspects of how they came to operate; modern similarites are well-earned but all missing that spark of being the first. Dead Heads are rightfully protective of the title being thrown around too lightly; of course there are many valid ways to compare the two bands, especially now with the [Official Bootlegger](https://kinggizzardandthelizardwizard.com/bootlegger) scheme that sanctions fans to produce their own copies of live recordings — but it is important to let each band have and generate their own legacies too.  
Another attendee had a very rational take:
"I mean how big were The [Grateful] Dead ten years into their stuff in 1975? Pretty big! They were selling out everywhere... I mean give it a couple of decades, then go to the Rock and Roll hall of Fame"

---

[Brittany Todd](https://twitter.com/BrittanyTodd), who has one of the bigger presences on Twitter among King Gizzard fans, summed up why we all listen best:

"I think Gizzard just stands for everything I stand for, the climate crisis, to women's rights, human rights, indiginous rights. Everything they write about, their music, their whole essence is about making this world a better place — but also just being badasses and saying 'fuck the system', and 'fuck the world and everything thats happening' because this world is bullshit."
