---
title: "kglw.net Meta-Post #01 - Setlist Notation Guideline"
---

Phase 1 of kglw.net is in full swing and the response to the site has been great so far. Thank you to everyone who has used it!  
A big goal for Phase 1 is to bring every setlist up to its maximum potential detail and accuracy. This means manually reviewing each and every available recording and comparing notes as a team; something we are hard at work at and loving. You may have noticed some of the more recent setlists are already much more up to date with this extra detail.

The fans of every jam band develop a unique dialect for describing exactly why any given setlist or live moment is special, and our listening exercise is the perfect way to kickstart this process for the many diverse types of King Gizz jams already out there. Newcomers to the tape scene may be confused at what exactly they are reading — or perhaps even more so — the grizzliest Dead Head may disagree at one of our notations because it goes against something that may have been standard for decades. We cannot claim to be the arbiters of the King Gizz jam, so we of course welcome input (with reasoning and examples!).  
Here is a glossary for what we have found so far:

##Tease  
This is a musical reference to, or an element from one song contained within another song. It can be a melody, riff, chord progression, or any other intentionally recognisable song element. King Gizz have often done this through their career, but 2022 saw a massive increase in the frequency and diversity of these teases. It is most commonly done between longer, 'jammier' songs such as _Head On - Pill_, or _The Dripping Tap_, or songs that are compositionally similar such as the _I'm In Your Mind Fuzz_ suite. Occasionally songs from other artists may be teased, such as the frequent use of _Hawkwind - Master of the Universe_ during _Robot Stop_ throughout 2017.

Example

##Quote  
Similar to a tease, this is when lyrics from one song are sung within another. This can be done either isolated to or in conjunction with a tease.

Example

##Jam
A jam is an extended, improvised segment within a song that deviates significantly from the studio recording. Shorter jams can blur the lines between song segues or even teases, depending on just how close they get to a written, recorded version; this is an area that gets particularly subjective and can come down to how the band is feeling during a particular performance.  
Other jam bands may distinguish between different types of jams depending on how 'deep' or far they get from a given song as written, but we are of the opinion that King Gizz only jam 'inside' existing songs (so far). They occasionally use this process to 'write' their songs in studio (Such as for IDPLMAL](https://kglw.net/releases/ice-death-planets-lungs-mushrooms-and-lava/), then go back and re-learn what they did later, so no doubting they will take the next steps sometime in the future.

Example

##Segue
A segue is the connection of two different songs. Much like King Gizz often do in their studio albums this is also done live to string multiple songs together into medleys. Totally separate songs (where the music stops and there is a noticeable gap before the start of the next), are designated by a comma within a setlist. Segues have two types designated by ">" or "->":  
###>  
This is a soft segue, typically the previous song is completed and the next started as written, but the music never truly stops in between, connected perhaps with a consistent beat or sustained chord. Two separate songs but with a consistent flow through the setlist.
###_>
The full segue is a more complete connection of two songs, where one may be incomplete but a new song has begun before you realise. Teases and Jams are convenient ways to foreshadow or achieve this. This is more like two songs connected into one longer song.  
The difference between the two types of segue is relatively subjective and usually decided on a case by case basis depending on the available recording.

We have already mentioned subjectivity more than once. As any experienced jam band fan will know there are always points of contention in how these terms apply. It is even possible that they all apply to one situation, such as if the rhythm section finish a song while someone maintains semi-improvised noodling and another band member decides to riff into a microphone while everyone else picks it all back up.  
Alternatively, none may apply. While in general the band are recreating recorded songs we know and love, there will always be fundamental variations in every performance that are not worth noting because they are taken as given — this is the nature and excitement of a live show. In these cases, other terms such as 'theme', 'motif', 'variation', 'hint', or any others may be casually used with less definition.

It is important to remember the end goal in all of this defining and notating — to share and enjoy incredible King Gizz live performances and explore just what makes them so special. If a particular moment turns out to be contentious, this is most likely because it was so ambiguous in the first place, and therefore has little bearing on this goal.  
This way of listening to the band relies on dedicated live show tapers who freely provide us all with this audio at significant cost and investment of time, for the love of the culture and the band. From a legal/copyright perspective it all operates in a grey-area based on specific allowances from each venue, and a general blessing from the band. This only works as long as we are considerate and respectful of the work and content produced by others, who at the very least always deserve credit for their effort and may each have a preffered way their work is shared. We're all as weird as each other here, so if in doubt, best to reach out and ensure everything stays above board and friendly.
This style of playing is new to the band, who are clearly learning more every time they step on stage or into the studio; and it is on us to grow with them and learn how to best enjoy their music.
